hello everyone this is mr brain junkie
here and today we're going to be talking
about a science fiction film called
transcendence
be ready for some spoilers ahead the
main character will
is a scientist one of the pioneers of
developing artificial intelligence
the progress of his work is slow and the
fundings are running out
he attends a conference hoping to obtain
financial support from new investors
interested in the potential of his work
will's friend and colleague
max another fellow scientist also
attends this conference and introduces
his best friend to the audience while on
stage
will speaks passionately about the
approaching of a singularity where
artificial intelligence will be so
powerful that it surpasses the
collective intelligence of the human
race
his philosophy is clearly very
polarizing as a nervous audience stands
up and demands to know whether if will
is trying to create god
to which he answers that that is what
man has always done
after his lectures he exits while
signing autographs and suddenly
the same man who questioned him earlier
shoots him with a gun
he then proceeds to kill himself while a
suspicious woman
watches from afar it turns out that this
was not a singular event
as terrorists have attacked most of the
ai labs in the country
simultaneously agent buchanan and will's
mentor
joseph pace him a visit after surviving
the attack
they inform will that the terrorist
group is only beginning their mission of
eradicating
all ai research they have destroyed
decades of work from most labs
but since will is privately funded the
government wants to investigate his
research as
is potentially in danger of being
destroyed the group enters will's
laboratory and meets pin
an artificial intelligence created by
the main character using quantum
processors
they are surprised that the ai knows
their identity as it uses existing
information from the internet
but creating a true ai requires
understanding consciousness
which the scientists have failed so far
joseph says that another scientist may
have solved this problem
and he will send over the research when
it's packed up
will begins to feel sick as a result of
the attack earlier
the doctors eventually diagnosed him
with radiation poisoning
resulting from the plutonium laced on
the bullet
as will's health declines he begins to
regret not finishing his work before his
death
but max makes him realize what is truly
important
and he decides to spend the rest of his
days with his wife
seeing her husband's health the great
day after day evelyn decides to take
matters into her own hands
after receiving the research sent over
by joseph
apparently instead of creating an
artificial intelligence
he duplicated one using a monkey's brain
max warns evelyn about the dangers of
this experiment
and at best they would only make a copy
of will's consciousness
not really saving him but she doesn't
care as long as her husband can stay
with her
and she convinces max to help her with
her plan
they set up the laboratory and implant
electrodes in will spring
copying his mental processes while he's
still alive
the two captures will's facial
expression and vocabularies
everything that they can get their hands
on
will succumbs to his sickness and dies
while sleeping
his wife cries on max's shoulder at the
sight of her husband's dead body
they try to formulate the data they
collected into a coherent intelligence
but fails as they only receive random
codes in return
just as they're about to give up they
see a message on the computer
indicating will's consciousness they
turn on the volume and cameras
and her husband begins to speak the ai
quickly begins reorganizing its own code
and wants evelyn to connect him to the
internet and upgrade his hardware
max tries to stop her as he warns her
that this is not will
if they allow the ai to connect online
there will be no
limits to what he can do but she doesn't
listen to her friend's warnings
and screams for him to get out max goes
to a bar to contemplate about what to do
next
and meets the same woman who
orchestrated will's assassination
she tries to recruit him into the
extremist organization
but max refuses and tries to leave he
exits the bar and gets attacked and
kidnapped right away
the hackers find evelyn's location and
proceeds to try and stop her from
uploading the ai
they destroyed the cables and all its
hardwares but it was too late
as evelyn has already uploaded will
online
the ai quickly plans all her escape
routes and proceeds to trade on wall
street
making millions in a matter of minutes
while the police force is trying to
locate all the terrorists
will overrides their system and proceeds
to identify each and every one of the
criminals
this forces the terrorist group to run
and relocate
as the ai brings evelyn to a small town
in the desert where they can hide and
further his plans
evelyn buys most of the buildings and
businesses in the small town
and hires a construction crew to rebuild
everything for her
regardless of the price on the other
side the terror terrorist continues to
try and recruit max into their cause
she states that they share the same
philosophy about a.i
and how it's supposed to help humans and
not replace them
her words begins to reach max as the
man's allegiance starts wavering in the
face
of the potential harm that the ai can
cause they continue to monitor evelyn
from afar
and sees that she's built numerous solar
panels and structures
the terrorist wants max to show them how
to stop it
but he says that they can't the only way
is for humanity to realize
its danger when it's gone too far and
then they will retaliate against the ai
whale begins building labs underground
and researching on nanotechnology that
can regenerate and rebuild living
tissues
he believes that humanity will be afraid
at first but they will embrace it with
joy after seeing its application which
will change their lives
after an incident that almost killed one
of their workers
will decides to use his experimental
technology to save him
the results are better than expected as
it gave the man superhuman strength
and enables will to possess his body but
the changes are too frightening for his
wife as she is unable to accept will's
embrace from the body of another man
although evelyn is together with her
husband she continues to have
reoccurring nightmares
and wakes up repeatedly at night will
continues to enhance the people of the
town
carrying anyone with disabilities but
also allowing them to be controlled by
him
he tells his wife that it's time to show
the world what they can offer
and she invites joseph and buchanan into
the laboratories
the two are shocked when they see will
on the monitor
and wonders if he's actually conscious
the ai demonstrates the capabilities of
his nanobots as they cure a person out
of blindness that he was born into
he also shows them his workers who are
still enhanced with superhuman
abilities and all connected to the same
network he resides in
before they leave joseph asks evelyn if
she's alright with all this
and holds her hand they leave in their
car as evelyn opens the note that joseph
secretly gave her which tells her to run
joseph tells buchanan that this is
getting out of control
as they now pose a threat to national
security they hypothesize that the only
way to stop will is to cut off the
internet to the world
and they plan on working with the
terrorists to achieve this goal
meanwhile evelyn grows more distant to
will as she becomes afraid of what he
can do
will thinks that evelyn doesn't love him
anymore as she shows an abnormal
imbalance to her body chemistry this
angers her even more
as will reads her biometrics without
permission violating her privacy
she runs outside angry at what the ai
has done
but suddenly numerous explosions appear
as the military infiltrates the facility
along with the terrorists
the workers try to protect evelyn as the
military shoots at them
the bullets have little effects on the
workers though as the nanobots heal them
almost immediately they chase after the
military personnel
as evelyn runs inside and tells will to
not harm the people
the ai tells her that it's not his
intention to fight the people
but rather he wishes to transcend them
evelyn looks at will in fear
and runs outside only to see all the
nanobots are rising into the atmosphere
spreading everywhere the government
agent manages to capture one of the
workers but without being connected to
the ai
the man is dying very quickly max takes
a blood sample from the worker which she
plans to use to make a virus in order to
destroy the ai
the government agents captures evelyn
after she ran away from will
and proceeds to bring her to their
location max shows her what will has
done to the atmosphere by examining
a drop of rain water the nanobots are
self-replicating
and they are spreading everywhere when
the nanobots encapsulates the entire
planet
everything will be under will's control
and humanity would lose its freedom
evelyn doesn't think that her husband
would do something so horrendous
but max reminds her that the ai was
never her husband
convinced by her colleague evelyn
decides to inject the virus into herself
and convince will to upload her
consciousness which will also
infect him as well the military
surrounds the facility with artilleries
and waits for will to take the bait
to everyone's surprise will walks out of
the building in a human body and
proceeds to embrace evelyn in his arms
she tells will to upload her
consciousness but he hesitates
sensing that her biometrics are going
off the charts as evelyn is terrified of
him
the military begins firing at both of
them reasoning that the more dangerous
she's in
the more likely that the ai will upload
her evelyn tries to run inside
but gets hit by an explosion which sends
her flying
will carries her away into the
laboratory as the bombs continue to fall
around them
he looks at her in sadness as he
realizes that his wife wants to destroy
him with the virus
evelyn tells him that he's killing the
human race but will disagrees as he
believes that he's actually saving them
in a last effort to try and destroy the
ai the terrorist threatens to kill max
in front of will if he doesn't upload
the virus
although max thinks that the ai doesn't
care he eventually chooses to receive
the virus from his wife
which reversed all the people he helped
into their disabilities again
as evelyn becomes connected to her
husband's consciousness
she sees that the nanobots are helping
the earth just like he said before
she realizes that the ai has always been
her husband
and they share a final kiss sometime
later
max goes back to evelyn's house and sees
the dead sunflowers are somehow blooming
he looks closely at the water and
notices that the nanobot still
exists they were protected by the copper
wires
will installed in the garden from the
beginning and their consciousness are
now together forever
so what do you guys think about this
movie let me know in the comments below
and if you like my video please press
like and subscribe for more
i'll see you guys next time